---
title: "Projects"
date: 2024-07-06T13:06:09+02:00
---

## NBLulu

Enbilulu is a smart irrigation system developed as a proof of concept
at Mater. This system is a practical low-cost DIY solution to precise
water management in farming.

![NBLulu](nblulu.jpeg)

Enbilulu harnesses simple technology to improve irrigation efficiency.

### Understanding Enbilulu

Enbilulu operates on the principle of using temperature and humidity to
estimate water loss through a process known as
[evapotranspiration](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Evapotranspiration).

#### Evapotranspiration Simplified

Evapotranspiration is the sum of evaporation from the soil surface plus
transpiration from plants leaves. Essentially, it represents how much
water is being lost to the atmosphere from the soil and plants.
Understanding this process is crucial for accurate irrigation.

#### The Role of Enbilulu

By estimating the amount of water lost via evapotranspiration, Enbilulu
can precisely calculate the exact amount of water needed for
replenishment. This smart system is implemented using a server (like a
Raspberry Pi or low-spec PC) and a microcontroller-electrovalve setup.

### Experimenting with Enbilulu: the GOING project

The true test of Enbilulu's efficacy came with an experiment at [Il
Bosco Giardino](http://ilboscogiardino.com/) farm. The focus was to
observe the effects of different deficit irrigation regimes on three
different tomato varieties.

#### Deficit Irrigation Technique

This technique involves applying less water than the full
evapotranspiration rate, strategically stressing the plants. It's a
method known to potentially improve the quality of certain crops, like
tomatoes.

#### The Experiment Setup

Using Enbilulu, the experiment applied 50%, 75%, and 100% of the
calculated crop evapotranspiration needs to the tomato plants. This
approach allowed for a detailed analysis of how varying water stress
levels impact the growth, yield, and quality of different tomato
varieties.

### Implications and Insights

The Enbilulu experiment not only showcases the system's capability to
provide precise irrigation but also opens up a new perspective on
**using water stress as a tool to enhance crop quality** (see [deficit
irrigation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deficit_irrigation)). This
smart irrigation system exemplifies how low-tech solutions, grounded in
consolidated scientific research, can lead to significant improvements
in agricultural practices. Its ability to balance water usage with crop
needs not only conserves an essential resource but also paves the way
for producing higher quality crops.
